[Music]
well here it is the Ford Focus Electric
the latest salvo being fired in what is
an auto industry war to make electrified
cars let's take it apart on its surface
where we dig into the specs it's a
standard focus in terms of the sheet
metal the proportions all of that Ford
says that's one of their trump cards is
that it's not a weird car like a leaf
it's a nameplate and style that folks
are used to and is rather popular in
showrooms you will find one difference
though they've grafted on the certain
Aston Martin s cooking grill that we're
also seeing coming up in the new fusion
later this year it's a good-looking
front end and there's also some special
wheels on here inside you're going to
find a lot of the materials are made of
recycled stuff Ford's been doing this
for a while soybean cushions and
recycled bottles for the fabric it's all
part of the green message but not
critical to making this car sell what is
is the powertrain now if there's a
secret sauce to the Ford Focus Electric
this is the sauce dispenser the charger
this charging coupler can go to a level
two charger that has a six point six
kilowatt capacity a lot of numbers
here's what that means that's a very
powerful charger if you will and it
matches a component in the Ford Focus
Electric that allows it to RAM more
volts into that battery faster a short
charge of three to four hours is what
they're promising from zero to full
capacity of around seventy-five miles
range over night charges are easy
there's plenty of time to charge a car
while you sleep it's those opportunistic
ones you go to the mall you go see a
movie for a couple hours and change if
you can plug in then to an advanced
charger that uses the advanced charger
in the car as well coupled with it six
point six kilowatt level stuff you're
going to get a meaningful charge in two
or three hours a complete top-up let's
say that's where this becomes more
livable not the overnight story this
specific charger was developed by
Leviton you may know them for some of
the light switches in your house it'll
be sold and installed by Best Buy Geek
Squad guys $14.99 includes installation
so just under 1,500 bucks you can get
those same quick charge benefits from
any public charging station that has a
level 2 outlet free this charge was made
to get those benefits from your
it basically connects to the dryer
circuit the myford mobile app is also
part of the economy using a database
powered by Microsoft it micro manages
your home charging based on local rate
schedules and the tariff plan you're
enrolled under and that can bring your
cost of power they say down as low as a
dollar 20 for a full 70 for my large
versus two dollars and seventy six a
full charge if you were to kind of
indiscriminately plug in and get the
national average rate Ford's also
partnering with a company called Sun
power to offer a 10 thousand dollar
photovoltaic panel kit you put this at
your house and they say can provide up
to 12,000 miles of driving charge each
year the system costs 10,000 bucks
installed that same number of miles a
year would only cost you between 195 and
450 bucks a year charging off the grid
so you'd only do this if you're really
green or plan to drive your focus more
than 23 years this car will do battle
directly with the Nissan Leaf and
indirectly due to different technology
and resulting behavior with the Chevy
Volt but the key is that there will soon
be three major car makers with
mainstream v's in showrooms okay pricing
on this guy it's gonna make some folks
swallow hard it's a $40,000 Focus but
that's before you apply a current $7,500
federal tax incentives check with your
tax guy about how all that works and
then go look for state incentives as
well most of the states where they're
gonna release that thing and it's not
all 50 at once also have incentives
it'll bring the price down even further
so you can see this car being perhaps 30
or so and as they mentioned the Focus
Electric is not offered in a stripped
edition it's well equipped throughout
availability of spring of 2012
[Music]